{{Modding tool
|type=Shared Mod Menu
|author=Conner
|status=Upcoming
|github=conner-olsen/eu5-community-mod-menu
}}

The Community Mod Menu (CMM) is a dependency mod that allows multiple mods to hook into a single shared setting menu through a simple registration API.

The guide below will be based on the CMM Example Mod, which can be found [TODO here on the workshop] or [https://github.com/conner-olsen/eu5-community-mod-menu/tree/main/submods/example-mod here on GitHub], where <code>example-mod</code> is the root mod folder.

You can always use any file name you want, but they must be placed in the correct folder and have the correct file extension.
== Basic Setup ==
First, create an effect file such as <code>example-mod/in_game/common/scripted_effects/cmm_example_effects.txt</code>:
<syntaxhighlight lang="text">
cmm_example_register_mod = { # The setup effect you create
	# This will be where you register your settings
}
</syntaxhighlight>
* <code>cmm_example_register_mod</code>, this is your registration effect and can be named whatever you want.

Secondly create an <code>on_action</code> file such as <code>example-mod/in_game/common/on_action/cmm_example_on_action.txt</code>, with the following:
<syntaxhighlight lang="text">
cmm_on_mod_registration = {
	on_actions = {
		cmm_example_on_register_mod    # The on_action you create below.
	}
}

cmm_example_on_register_mod = {
	effect = {
		cmm_example_register_mod = yes # The registration effect you created previously.
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>
* <code>cmm_on_mod_registration</code>: This is the <code>on_action</code> provided by CMM, and is how CMM will know to run your registration effect.
* <code>cmm_example_on_register_mod</code> is your on_action that will run your registration effect and can be named whatever you want.
* <code>cmm_example_register_mod</code> is the effect that we created above, and must match the name you choose before.

Then for later use create a <code>Scripted GUI</code> file, and a Localization file, such as:
<code>example-mod/in_game/common/scripted_guis/cmm_example_scripted_gui.txt</code>

== Localization ==
Create or use an existing localization file your mod settings, such as <code>example-mod/main_menu/localization/english/cmm_example_mod_l_english.yml</code>

CMM follows a standard naming scheme for all localization keys you must follow.

=== Mod Name ===
* Mod Name: <code>[Your_Mod_ID]_name</code>
For example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="yaml">
l_english:
 cmm_example_name: "CMM Example Mod" # Name of your mod
</syntaxhighlight>

* Tab Name: <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Tab_ID]_name</code>
* Group Name: <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Group_ID]_name</code>

=== Tab, Group, & Setting Names ===
These all follow the exact same format of:
* <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Tab/Setting/Group]_Name</code>

For example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="yaml">
l_english:
 # ...
 cmm_example__general_name: "General"          # Name of your tab
 cmm_example__general_toggles_name: "Toggles"  # Name of your group
 cmm_example__example_toggle_name: "Toggle"    # Name of your setting
</syntaxhighlight>
Where in this example:
* <code>cmm_example</code> is the mod ID.
* <code>general</code> is the tab ID.
* <code>general_toggles</code> is the group ID.
* <code>example_toggle</code> is the setting ID.

You only need one key for per tab, group, and setting you make.

=== Descriptions ===
Nearly everything in CMM supports a optional description as well, which will appears in the tooltip for each element.

The format is nearly identical to names, just with <code>_desc</code> instead of <code>_name</code>.

For example:
<syntaxhighlight lang="yaml">
l_english:
 cmm_example_desc: "A example reference mod for CMM."           # Description of your mod
 cmm_example__general_desc: "General purpose settings."         # Decription of your tab
 cmm_example__general_toggles_name: "All toggle settings."      # Description of your group
 cmm_example__example_toggle_name: "A example toggle setting."  # Description of your setting
</syntaxhighlight>

== Basic Settings ==
=== Checkbox ===
You can create a checkbox using <code>cmm_register_bool_setting</code>, placed inside of the registration effect we created before:
<syntaxhighlight lang="text">
cmm_example_register_mod = {
	cmm_register_bool_setting = {
		mod_id = cmm_example        # Your mod ID
		setting_id = example_toggle # Your setting ID
		tab_id = general            # Your tab ID
		group_id = general_toggles  # Your group ID
		default_value = 0           # 0 = Unchecked, 1 = Checked
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>

Then inside of the Scripted GUI file we created previously add:
<syntaxhighlight lang="text">
cmm_example__example_toggle_on_changed = {
	scope = country

	effect = {
		cmm_toggle_bool_setting = {
			setting = cmm_example__example_toggle
		}
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>
* <code>cmm_example__example_toggle_on_changed</code>: Will run whenever the checkbox is clicked, it must be named based your mod and setting ID you defined previously: <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Setting_ID]_on_changed</code>
* <code>cmm_toggle_bool_setting</code>: A CMM provided helper that will handle the setting change.
* <code>setting</code>: You must provide the setting ID, which is always <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Setting_ID]</code>, and thus for the example mod is <code>cmm_example__example_toggle</code>.

After doing this, the checkbox will now be fully functional.

The value of the checkbox is synced with a country variable named <code>[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Setting_ID]</code>, with 1 for checked, and 0 for unchecked.
Elsewhere in your mod you can access the value of this variable through <code>var:[Your_Mod_ID]__[Your_Setting_ID]</code>.

For example if you wanted to determine whether a effect can be run for a nation:
<syntaxhighlight lang="text">
your_effect = {
	if = {
		limit = {
			var:cmm_example__example_toggle = 1
		}
		# Your effect logic here
	}
}
</syntaxhighlight>
Where the above would only run if the checkbox is checked.

=== Dropdown ===


== Advanced Setting ==

{{Modding navbox
|category=Modding tools
}}
